Puppeteer/Playwright course (fixed branch name) (#357)
apify/apify-docs: content/academy/puppeteer_playwright/proxies.md

---

# [](#using-proxies) Using proxies

[Proxies]({{@link anti_scraping/proxies.md}}) are a great way of appearing as if you are making requests from a different location. A common use case for proxies is to avoid [geolocation]({{@link concepts/geolocation.md}}) restrictions. For example your favorite TV show might not be available on Netflix in your country, but it might be available for Vietnamese Netflix watchers.

In this lesson, we'll be learning how to use proxies with Playwright and Puppeteer. This will be demonstrated with a Vietnamese proxy that we got by running [this](https://apify.com/mstephen190/proxy-scraper) proxy-scraping actor on the Apify platform.

## [](#adding-a-proxy) Adding a proxy

First, let's go ahead and create a variable called `proxy` which will point to our proxy server:

> Note that this proxy may no longer be working at the time of reading. If you don't have a proxy to use during this lesson, we recommend using Proxy Scraper for a list of free ones, or checking out [Apify proxy](https://apify.com/proxy)

```marked-tabs
<marked-tab header="Playwright" lang="javascript">
import { chromium } from 'playwright';

// our proxy server

> const proxy = '103.214.9.13:3128';

Reviewer: I can't decide if this is confusing or not. We define the variable, but we don't use it anywhere in this example. Maybe we should show only the one line with the variable definition as the code example?

Author: I am showing them the boilerplate code for the rest of the lesson + the variable declaration at the same time

const browser = await chromium.launch({ headless: false });
const page = await browser.newPage();
await page.goto('https://google.com');

await page.waitForTimeout(10000);
await browser.close();
</marked-tab>
<marked-tab header="Puppeteer" lang="javascript">
import puppeteer from 'puppeteer';

// our proxy server
const proxy = '103.214.9.13:3128';

const browser = await puppeteer.launch({ headless: false });
const page = await browser.newPage();
await page.goto('https://google.com');

await page.waitForTimeout(10000);
await browser.close();
</marked-tab>
```

> For both Puppeteer and Playwright, the proxy's server URL should be passed into the options of the `launch()` function; however, it's done a bit differently depending on which library you're using.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For both Puppeteer and Playwright, the proxy server's URL should be passed into the options of the `launch()` function; however, it's done a bit differently depending on which library you're using.
```

In Puppeteer, the server must be passed within the **--proxy-server** [Chromium command line argument](https://peter.sh/experiments/chromium-command-line-switches/), while in Playwright, it can be passed into the **proxy** option.

```marked-tabs
<marked-tab header="Playwright" lang="javascript">
import { chromium } from 'playwright';

const proxy = '103.214.9.13:3128';

const browser = await chromium.launch({
    headless: false,
    // Using the "proxy" option
    proxy: {
        // Pass in the server URL
        server: proxy,
        
    },
});
const page = await browser.newPage();
await page.goto('https://google.com');

await page.waitForTimeout(10000);
await browser.close();
</marked-tab>
<marked-tab header="Puppeteer" lang="javascript">
import puppeteer from 'puppeteer';

const proxy = '103.214.9.13:3128';

// Using the "args" option, which is an array of Chromium command
// line switches, we pass the server URL in with "--proxy-server"

> const browser = await puppeteer.launch({ headless: false, args: [`--proxy-server=${proxy}`] });

Reviewer: Multi-lining it, because the important param was partially cut off and one needed to scroll to se it.

```suggestion
const browser = await puppeteer.launch({
    headless: false,
    args: [`--proxy-server=${proxy}`]
});
```
